ustring proposal repository
===========================

This repository contains code and documentation for an upcoming proposal regarding ustring, an immutable, unicode code point string class for C++.

The ustring.h file contains a complex implementation of the ustring specification described in ustring.md. The intention is that
other implementations can be made, with other trade-offs between complexity and simplicity and between storage usage and performance.

The ustring class is by default located in namespace `stdx` and the associated string literal operators are located in
`stdx::literals::string_literals`, and are named `_u` to avoid compiler warnings. If the preprocessor name `IS_STANDARDIZED` is defined
when including ustring.h the ustring class is instead placed in the `std` namespace, and the string literals in
`std::literals::string_literals`, with additional string literals named `u` are added.

Some additional files are ustring_ni.md which contains some background text (quite old and not updated for recent changes), and
unicode_iterator which could be another proposal or maybe used as a component in the ustring implementation at a later stage. It is
more of a synopsis level at this point,

Note that the ustring.pdf file was generated from the ustring.md file. Later this could maybe be automated in github so that the pdf file is
generated by github CI. I have no idea how to do that. For the moment I just export to pdf from the markdown editor Typora that I use.

Typora works well, but has the problem that it does not write single line breaks in its md file so reviewing changes in github is
close to impossible. I have filed a request to improve this handling but it has not been implemented yet.


The test implementation is provided under the MIT license:

Copyright 2022 Bengt Gustafsson

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files
(the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify,
merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Further information at: https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT.
